WHAT ARE THE SYMPTOMS OF BLINDNESS?
1.Cloudy vision
2.An inability to see shapes
3.Seeing only shadows
4.Poor night vision
5.Tunnel vision

WHAT CAUSES BLINDNESS?
1.Glaucoma refers to different eye conditions that can damage your optic nerve.
2.Macular degeneration destroys the part of your eye that enables you to see details.
(It usually affects older adults)
3.Cataracts cause cloudy vision. They’re more common in older people.
4.A lazy eye can make it difficult to see details.
5.Optic neuritis is inflammation that can cause temporary or permanent vision loss.
6.Retinitis pigmentosa refers to damage of the retina. It leads to blindness only in rare cases.
7.Tumors that affect the retina or optic nerve can also cause blindness.

Other common causes of blindness include:
1.Birth defects
2.Eye injuries
3.Complications from eye surgery

SYMPTOMS OF BLINDNESS IN INFANTS
The symptoms of visual impairment in young children can include:
1.Constant eye rubbing
2.An extreme sensitivity to light
3.Poor focusing
4.Chronic eye redness
5.Chronic tearing from their eyes
6.A white instead of black pupil
7.Poor visual tracking, or trouble following an object with their eyes
8.Abnormal eye alignment or movement after 6 months of age

WHO’S AT RISK FOR BLINDNESS?
The following categories of people are at risk for blindness:
1.People with eye diseases, such as macular degeneration and glaucoma
2.People with diabetes
3.People who have a stroke
4.People undergoing eye surgery
5.People who work with or near sharp objects or toxic chemicals
6.Premature babies

HOW IS BLINDNESS TREATED?
In some cases of vision impairment, one or more of the following may help restore vision:
1.Eyeglasses
2.Contact lenses
3.Surgery
4.Medication

Complete blindness requires approaching life in a new way and learning new skills.
1.Read Braille
2.Use a guide dog
3.Organize your home, so you can easily find things and stay safe
4.Fold money in distinct ways to distinguish bill amounts

CAUSES OF BLINDNESS IN INFANTS
1.Infections, such as pink eye
2.Blocked tear ducts
3.Cataracts
4.Strabismus (crossed eyes)
5.Amblyopia (lazy eye)
6.Ptosis (droopy eyelid)
7.Congenital glaucoma
8.Retinopathy of prematurity (rop), which occurs in premature babies when the blood vessels
that supply their retina aren’t fully developed
9.Visual inattention, or delayed development of your child’s visual system

HOW CAN BLINDNESS BE PREVENTED?
- To detect eye diseases and help prevent vision loss, get regular eye examinations.
If you receive a diagnosis of certain eye conditions, such as glaucoma,
treatment with medication can help prevent blindness.

- To help prevent vision loss, the American Optometric Association recommends
you have your child’s eyes examined:
1.at 6 months of age
2.at 3 years of age
3.every year between 6 and 17 years old
If you notice symptoms of vision loss, make an appointment with their eye doctor immediately.